hello everyone my name is Riley and I'm
one of the expert TOEFL teachers here at
ET language welcome to another TOEFL
video and today's video is going to be
all about vocabulary specifically we
need to look at why we need to build our
vocab what words should we learn and
most importantly how can we learn these
new words without further ado let's get
into it so if I tell you you need to
work on building your vocabulary you'd
probably ask me why do I even need to do
this right well the simple answer would
be this will help you improve your TOEFL
score but how exactly will improving
your vocabulary help you get a better
score let me take you through some of
the sections of the test to explain to
you how this will help you improve your
score let's start with the writing
section because this is probably where
you'll heavily rely on your vocabulary
to express your ideas this is what the
TOEFL rubric looks like so the rubric is
essentially the marking guide that
Assessors use that examiner's use to
give you a score here we have the
integrated marking guide on the left and
the independent writing marking guide on
the right let's take a closer look to
find out what you need to do to get top
marks so obviously there's a bunch of
things that the examiners look for but
if you read carefully it mentions things
like use of language word choice
idiomatic City and occasional language
errors what this means is that you need
to be able to use a variety of different
words accurately and this is super
important because vocab
accounts for anywhere between 25 to 33
percent of your total writing score
let's put this into perspective by
looking at an independent writing task
question so when you look at this
question I want you to think about your
own language ability so think about how
confident you are about being able to
deal with these kinds of topics on test
day will you be able to demonstrate the
range and accuracy that's needed to get
your desired score will you be able to
impress the examiner with your
vocabulary when reading this you should
already be thinking about your
vocabulary bank what do I know about
this topic what is some relevant
language that I can use what are some
synonyms that I can use for example
what's another word for illegal hunting
pochi how about becoming endangered you
could say dying out and how about facing
extinction another way of saying this
would be on the verge of extinction
which again means about to die out so
you see how knowing synonyms and also
knowing a lot of different words can
really help you with your writing tasks
now let's have a look at the reading
section in the reading section you'll be
asked a variety of different questions
such as vocabulary sentence
simplification pro summary and fill in a
table all of these questions will
directly or indirectly test your
vocabulary they can either ask you to
guess the meaning from context or choose
the correct paraphrase and you'd be able
to do this
cessful II only if you know a lot of
different words there are no shortcuts
there are no tricks it's just simply
learning more vocabulary so let's have a
look at a reading question now just to
see how this works now I'm going to give
you one minute to answer this question
and if you need longer you can always
press pause
so how did she go if you already knew
what the word conservation means this
would have been a cakewalk for you but
if you didn't quite know what it means
you would have had to rely on the
context and the world other words in the
passage to understand the meaning of
this particular word but imagine if you
didn't know the meaning of the words
around that particular word like you
didn't know the meaning of the words in
the passage what would you have done
then then it would have been really
difficult for you to be able to guess
the correct answer let's have a look at
what the correct answer was so the
correct answer was protection because in
this context it could be considered as a
synonym of conservation now if you
didn't know what this word meant you
would still have to read around it and
try to guess from context but you would
still have to know the meaning of words
like
species
extinction biodiversity so what
researchers have found is that learners
can understand the text when 95 to 98%
of the words are known so that brings us
to a second question what vocabulary do
I need to know so one of my colleagues
did some research on reading tests and
found that 80% of the words come from
the first 2,000 words in English what
this means is that these are words that
are most frequently used the good news
is that you probably already know heaps
of these words like spend good idea bad
the all of these words will make up 80%
of the reading text and about 5.5
percent of the words come from the
academic words list which is the list of
570 words commonly found in academic
texts so words like research theory
initial acquire and valid so these are
words that you'd likely find in academic
discourse in publications like academic
journals or perhaps research reports
this leaves us with others which make up
about 15.5% so these are words that go
beyond the top 2,000 most common words
in English so these are more technical
or topic specific what's like habitat
predators livestock foraging captive so
this list of words is from an analysis
of reading texts about animals
but this would be the general
composition of any reading test that you
you're likely to get so how does this
answer our question what vocabulary do I
need to know firstly you need to know
the most frequent words in English these
are the 2,000 most common words then you
need to be aware of the words on the
academic word list these are the most
academic words and you also need to know
words that are topic specific like the
ones that we saw about animals so this
brings us to our final question how can
I learn new vocabulary so we know there
are two thousand common words we know
there's a list of academic words and we
know there are few topic specific words
but realistically you won't be able to
just download these ten thousand words
or twenty thousand words into your brain
right so how are you actually going to
learn these new words so let's go back
to a little bit of research again so
there are two ways of learning new words
first one is deliberate this is when
your full attention is on learning new
vocabulary you might be looking it up in
a dictionary writing the meaning in your
book doing drills in class using
flashcards or something like that now
your aim is to learn the vocabulary in
deliberate learning and this is usually
very useful so even if you do get a
vocab list you should rewrite it
preferably by hand into your own system
your own format in our life classes we
spend some time on this kind of learning
you can obviously do this yourself but
it's usually easier when someone else
has prepared all these activities for
you so the other way to go about it is
incident
to learning so incidental learning
happens when you're actually focusing on
something else
for example you might be reading the
newspaper to catch up on what's going on
in the world or doing a listening test
or reading a text to write a summary
basically your focus is not on learning
vocabulary but as you encounter new
words and as you see them over and over
you accidentally just learn them now
it's important to remember that you need
to see these words over and over again
to be able to remember them and to
incorporate them into your own language
again a good teacher or a good teaching
system will be able to curate good
resources for you and direct you to
places where you keep meeting these
words you of course need both types of
learning you need to learn these words
on purpose and then you need to keep
seeing them again and again but let's
break it down further how do you really
learn a word it takes several steps and
two key factors are repetition and
quality of attention let's consider this
acronym as a basis for vocab learning
grow the G here stands for gather this
is the deliberate part of learning where
you collect or gather the meaning the
translation into your first language the
pronunciation related words synonyms
collocations and perhaps some example
sentences you should gather this
information into a system maybe use a
set of flashcards with meanings and
example sentences or you could just
write these words out by hand and this
is the very first step to learn new
words this brings us to step
to review to incorporate these words
into your vocabulary you need repetition
you need to see the words say here and
write them a lot
repetition starts with the basics the
meaning the spelling the sounds you
could use activities like spelling tests
gap fills dictation to help you with
this and this is a crucial step because
as humans we are likely to forget newly
learned information and this has been
scientifically proven so if you look at
this graph here when you first learn
something your retention is really high
so that's 100% so you look you see a new
word you look at the meaning you look at
some sample sentences and you've got the
meaning now so you know that word 100%
right and then a few days go by and you
probably forget what it means if you
don't see it again however if you revise
the meaning and if you keep looking at
those words over and over again
your attention goes back to 100 so for
example you learn a word on day one and
then you don't see it for four days your
attention drops to about 80% but if you
revise that word you review what you'd
studied it goes back up to 100%
that's why reviewing is crucial to
learning new vocabulary and then there's
step 3
Owen this means you need to use the new
words that you have learned you need to
write them say them and use them on a
day-to-day basis this will really help
you incorporate these words into your
language and the final step is to wonder
so you can think about this as exploring
vocabulary in the wild
what this means is that you read and
listen to a wide range of media and try
to learn more about different topics to
read and listen to text about animals
art culture science what this will do is
help you meet these words in different
contexts and they'll help you understand
the meaning in different settings so if
you want to get started on your vocab
learning journey you can go to e tu
language comm and check out the TOEFL
IBT course this will not only help you
build vocabulary but also help you to
develop skills that you need to ask the
test and if you're looking to focus only
on vocab you can sign up for test ready
on e to school comm the best part you
can do this for free let's quickly recap
what we saw in this video learning
vocabulary is important definitely we
need to learn high frequency as well as
topic-specific vocabulary so common
words as well as topic specific words
grow your vocabulary which involves
gathering information reviewing because
repetition will help retention you need
to own your new vocab personalized and
activate by using it every day and find
the vocab in new context as you wonder
to help you get started with learning
topics specific vocabulary we've made a
little toolkit for you the first one is
about animals and it includes 20 words a
set of reading questions writing
questions plus sample answers and
extra resources you can download this
toolkit from the description below also
don't forget to subscribe like comment
and share hopefully this video has given
you more clarity on why and how to learn
vocabulary
[Music]